--- 10 Drawing  Coordinate System.pptx ---
Drawing and Coordinate Systems
Instructor: Sabina Irum
1
The viewport refers to the region of the screen where the rendered graphics are displayed.It's essentially the area of the window or screen where the graphics are visible to the user.Viewport settings can include parameters like position, size, and aspect ratio, determining how the rendered scene is displayed on the screen.
Instructor: Sabina Irum
2
Orthographic 2D projection is a way of showing 2D graphics on a screen without making faraway objects look smaller or closer ones larger. It keeps everything the same size no matter how far away it is. It's like looking at a flat picture where everything stays the same size, regardless of how far away it is in the scene.
Instructor: Sabina Irum
3
Coordinate Systems 
World Coordinate system
World window 
Screen Coordinate system
Viewport 
Window to viewport mapping 
4
Instructor: Sabina Irum
MODEL/WORLD WINDOW-TO-VIEWPORT COORDINATE TRANSFORMATION 
A world-coordinate area select...

--- 13 Modeling virtual reality modeling.pptx ---
Modeling Virtually Real Appearance
Modeling Virtual Reality 
Modeling appearance of an object in virtual reality involves working on the following aspects:
 Material characteristics
 Lighting
 Shading
 Textures
Phong Reflection Model
The Phong reflection model is a local illumination model in which the light coming off of an object is grouped into one of the following categories:
 Ambient reflection
 This part of the model defines how the material reflects light from an ambient source
 Three coefficients of the material kar; kag; kab are provided
The values of the coefficients tell how much amounts of the red, green, and blue light components are reflected
 
Diffuse reflection
 Defines reflections of red, green, and blue components of light from the surface as a dull material
The color given here will be reflected with dull appearance
Amount of reflected light will depend upon the strength and distance of light source

Specular reflection
 Amount of the reflected red, green, and blue c...

--- 14 Texture Mapping.pptx ---
Texture Mapping


Texture mapping
Texture mapping is a graphic design process in which a two-dimensional (2-D) surface, called a texture map, is "wrapped around" a three-dimensional (3-D)object. 
Thus, the 3-D object acquires a surface texture similar to that of the 2-D surface. 
Texture mapping is the electronic equivalent of applying wallpaper, or paint to a real object.
Steps in Texture Mapping
Name the texture
Bind the texture to its name
Specify the parameters to use
Specify an application mode (either replace or modify)
Create the texture object
Enable texture mapping

Steps in the Rendering Process
Select a texture
Specify a mapping from the texture to pixels

Naming a Texture
The Function:
void glGenTextures(GLsizei n, GLuint* names)
Purpose:
Returns n unused "names" (actually integers)
The "names" need not be contiguous
Naming a Texture 
static GLuint textureName; 
// Get a name for the texture 
glGenTextures(1, &textureName); 
Binding a Texture to a Name
The Function:
void gl...

--- 15 Applications and modern Trends.pptx ---
Computer Graphics in Daily Life & Modern Trends
Overview of Real-World Applications and Emerging Technologies
Applications of Computer Graphics in Daily Life
• Gaming and Entertainment
  Used in 2D/3D games, animated movies, and visual effects.
• Education and Training
  Interactive simulations and virtual labs improve learning.
• Medical Imaging
  MRI, CT scans, and 3D visualization help in diagnosis.
• Engineering and Architecture
  CAD software is used for building and product design.
Modern Trends in Computer Graphics
• Artificial Intelligence in Graphics
  AI is used for image generation, animation, and automation.
• Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR)
  Provides immersive experiences in gaming and education.
• Real-Time Ray Tracing
  Creates realistic lighting and reflections in graphics.
• Metaverse and Digital Twins
  Virtual worlds and digital replicas are becoming popular.
Conclusion
Computer graphics play a major role in modern technology.
They improve visualizat...

--- 8 DDA-line-drawing-algorithm.pptx ---






Digital Differential Analyzer (DDA) 
LINE DRAWING ALGORITHM
WITH SOLVED EXAMPLES
The line (vector) generation algorithms which determine the pixels that should be turned ON are called as digital differential analyzer (DDA).  
It is one of the technique for obtaining a rasterized straight line. 
This algorithm can be used to draw the line in all the quadrants.



DDA LINE DRAWING ALGORITHM
DDA ALGORITHM
Assumption: 
(x1, y1) and (x2, y2) are the two end points of a line and are not equal.
Floor integer function is used to convert the real values into integer value.
	e.g.: if value is +8.5 then it is converted to 8 and 
	if value is -8.5 then it is converted to 9.
3. Sign function is used which returns +1, 0, -1 for the arguments >0, =0, <0.
	e.g.: sign(5) = +1 
		   sign(0) = 0
              sign(-10) = -1
		   sign (1) = 1

CONTD….
Step 1: Approximate the line length
if abs(x2-x1)>= abs(y2-y1) then
	length = abs(x2-x1)
else 
	length = abs(y2-y1)
end if 
 
Step 2: Decide increment...

--- 9 Bresenham_Algorithm.pptx ---
Bresenham’s Line Drawing Algorithm
HCI And Computer Graphics
Introduction
Bresenham’s algorithm is an incremental line drawing algorithm
Uses only integer calculations
More efficient than DDA algorithm
Selects the nearest pixel to the actual line

Basic Concept
Move along x-axis in unit steps 
At each step, choose between: 
(x+1, y) 
(x+1, y+1) 
Choose the pixel closer to the actual line 
Decision Parameter
Decision Parameter
Decision parameter: Pk 
Helps decide which pixel to choose 

Decision Rules
HINT: Pk < 0 → just increment x  Pk ≥ 0 → increment both x and y
If Pk < 0
→ Choose (xk+1, yk)
→ Pk+1 = Pk + 2dy
If Pk ≥ 0
→ Choose (xk+1, yk+1)
→ Pk+1 = Pk + 2dy − 2dx

Algorithm Steps

Advantages

Uses integer arithmetic only 
Faster than floating-point algorithms 
Efficient for raster displays 
Example 1
Line from (2, 5) to (10, 8)
dy = 8 – 5 = 3
dx = 10 – 2 = 8 
2dy = 6
2dx = 16
2dy - 2dx = -10
Po = 2dy – dx = -2

dy = 3		dx = 8  	   2dy = 6		 2dx = 16		 Po = -2
If Pk < 0
→ Pk+1 = Pk ...

